Hi! I am Ken. I am now an undergraduate student at Institut Teknologi Bandung studying Electrical Engineering. Do I really want to be an electrical engineer? Hmm, actually no. I am not attracted by the details of transistors, circuits or other electronics engineering things.
It’s not me. In my 1st semester in electrical engineering (the 3rd semester of my study) I don’t really know what to expect. I don’t know what I learn here and I don’t know what to learn. The only class that I like is probability and statistics. I only get an A for the class in the semester.
At that time I don’t have visions, I don’t know what to do, I don’t enjoy the learning. I am unmotivated!

I am a kind of person that must have a target. I must have something in my mind that I pursue. I should dream.
What I’d like to do after my graduation? What I really enjoy? These are questions that I repeatedly ask myself for.
In my 4th semester I became an undergraduate teaching assistant for Probability and Statistics. I understand even more about that and when I understand I feel really good,
I think my thirst is fulfilled. Well, I know that it’s still a long way to go, the exploration about the subject will never finish,
but to understand even the very basic is a step everyone has to make.

I love to share my new knowledge to my friends and sometimes my father (he is an alumni of electrical engineering ITB). I am really grateful to have them, even tough they’re not interested at the subject, they will always listen to my explanation.
I just like a person that find a gem and want to share it to everybody. I want them to really understand also because I know the ‘Ohhhh’ feeling, the satisfaction for understanding  something new, is one of the greatest feeling human being could have. In my case, it is my pleasure.

I have found the answer to the second question. How about the first one? Well, I think I have also found my dream, something that I’d like to do.
It has cross my mind several times, but I always ignore it. This time I have to catch it. It is a profession which many people often avoid, a profession that not many people wants to be, especially here in Indonesia,
a profession that the world always need, a profession that make the world and its people smarter and better. Yes, professor. I’d like to be a professor in the future. Where and what field?
I don’t know. I’d like to teach abroad and my wildest dream would say US. But my rational thinking would say “Helloooo, can you think a lil’ bit realistic please!? Your English isn’t that
good and even more your grades!”. This is one reason I write this blog. Mostly in English. I have to start writing also, thus I am used to writing. And I don’t want to stop dreaming.
I must believe that it is achievable. Ken going to MIT is an event that the present Ken would like to see from the future Ken. AMEN!

The blog is intended to those who like to learn as I write the blog to learn. To learn is not to know, but to understand. I’d like also write my experiences,
my journey, my ideas and thinking and also I would like to share some of my lecture notes. I hope you guys can enjoy my blog. Tchao!

Any fool can know. The point is to understand.
ALBERT EINSTEIN